reference/ExtractCoords.md, before:

# Extract spatial coordinates and cluster information

Extract spatial coordinates and (optionally) cluster assignments from a
`Seurat` object, a `SpatialExperiment` object, or a user-supplied data
frame.

## Usage

``` r
extractCoords(data, cluster_col = NULL, extract_cluster = TRUE)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  A `Seurat` object, a `SpatialExperiment` object, or a data frame
  containing spatial coordinates.

- cluster_col:

  Character scalar specifying the metadata column name containing
  cluster assignments. If `NULL`, a default is used depending on the
  input object type:

  - `"seurat_clusters"` for `Seurat` objects

  - `"cluster"` for `SpatialExperiment` objects

- extract_cluster:

  Logical indicating whether to extract cluster information. If `FALSE`,
  only spatial coordinates and cell IDs are returned. Default is `TRUE`.

## Value

A data frame with columns `x`, `y`, and `cell`, and optionally `cluster`
if `extract_cluster = TRUE`.

## Details

For `Seurat` objects, tissue coordinates are obtained using
[`Seurat::GetTissueCoordinates()`](https://satijalab.github.io/seurat-object/reference/GetTissueCoordinates.html),
and cluster labels are taken from the specified metadata column (by
default `seurat_clusters`).

For `SpatialExperiment` objects, spatial coordinates are obtained from
`spatialCoords()`, and cluster labels are taken from `colData()` (by
default the `cluster` column).

If a data frame is provided, it must already contain columns named `x`,
`y`, `cell`, and `cluster`.

## Examples

``` r
coords <- readRDS(system.file(
    "extdata", "MouseBrainCoords.rds",
    package = "SpNeigh"
))

head(extractCoords(coords))
#>          x        y cell cluster
#> 1 1898.815 2540.963    1       4
#> 2 1895.305 2532.627    2       4
#> 3 2368.073 2534.409    3       2
#> 4 1903.726 2560.010    4       4
#> 5 1917.481 2543.132    5       4
#> 6 1926.540 2560.044    6       4
```

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ jinming-cheng/SpNeigh@73ecf51f1cca3090282b053d4ddae7e2b9d0c0ee 🚀

reference/ExtractCoords.md, after:

# Extract spatial coordinates and cluster information

Extract spatial coordinates and (optionally) cluster assignments from a
`Seurat` object, a `SpatialExperiment` object, or a user-supplied data
frame.

## Usage

``` r
extractCoords(data, cluster_col = NULL, extract_cluster = TRUE, ...)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  A `Seurat` object, a `SpatialExperiment` object, or a data frame
  containing spatial coordinates.

- cluster_col:

  Character scalar specifying the metadata column name containing
  cluster assignments. If `NULL`, a default is used depending on the
  input object type:

  - `"seurat_clusters"` for `Seurat` objects

  - `"cluster"` for `SpatialExperiment` objects

- extract_cluster:

  Logical indicating whether to extract cluster information. If `FALSE`,
  only spatial coordinates and cell IDs are returned. Default is `TRUE`.

- ...:

  Additional arguments (unused).

## Value

A data frame with columns `x`, `y`, and `cell`, and optionally
`cluster`.

## Details

This is an S3 generic with methods implemented for `Seurat`,
`SpatialExperiment`, and `data.frame`.

## Examples

``` r
coords <- readRDS(system.file(
    "extdata", "MouseBrainCoords.rds",
    package = "SpNeigh"
))

head(extractCoords(coords))
#>          x        y cell cluster
#> 1 1898.815 2540.963    1       4
#> 2 1895.305 2532.627    2       4
#> 3 2368.073 2534.409    3       2
#> 4 1903.726 2560.010    4       4
#> 5 1917.481 2543.132    5       4
#> 6 1926.540 2560.044    6       4
```
