reference/PlotExpression.md, before:

# Plot gene expression across spatial coordinates

Visualizes expression of selected genes on a spatial plot using cell
coordinates and expression matrix. Can display expression for all cells
or a subset (e.g., by cluster or manually specified cells). Also
supports splitting the plot using metadata columns (e.g., `cluster`) and
returning either a combined plot or a list of individual ggplot objects.

## Usage

``` r
PlotExpression(
  data = NULL,
  exp_mat = NULL,
  genes = NULL,
  sub_plot = FALSE,
  one_cluster = NULL,
  sub_cells = NULL,
  split_by = NULL,
  ncol = NULL,
  return_list = FALSE,
  point_size = 0.2,
  angle_x_label = 0,
  shuffle = FALSE,
  theme_ggplot = my_theme_ggplot()
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  A Seurat object or a data frame with columns: `x`, `y`, `cell`, and
  `cluster`. If a Seurat object is provided, the `seurat_clusters`
  metadata column will be used as the `cluster`.

- exp_mat:

  A gene expression matrix (genes x cells) of class `matrix` or
  `dgCMatrix`. If `data` is a Seurat object, the matrix will be
  extracted automatically using
  [`Seurat::GetAssayData()`](https://satijalab.github.io/seurat-object/reference/AssayData.html).

- genes:

  Character vector specifying gene names to be plotted. Must match row
  names in `exp_mat`.

- sub_plot:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, only a subset of cells is plotted (based on
  `one_cluster` or `sub_cells`). Default is `FALSE`.

- one_cluster:

  Optional. Cluster ID to subset cells if `sub_plot = TRUE`.

- sub_cells:

  Optional. Vector of cell IDs to include in the plot if
  `sub_plot = TRUE`. If both `one_cluster` and `sub_cells` are provided,
  the intersection is used.

- split_by:

  Optional. Column name in the metadata (from `data`) to facet the plots
  (e.g., by `cluster`).

- ncol:

  Number of columns in the faceted plot when `split_by` is used. Passed
  to
  [`ggplot2::facet_wrap()`](https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org/reference/facet_wrap.html).
  Default is `NULL`, which lets ggplot2 determine layout automatically.

- return_list:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, returns a named list of individual ggplot objects
  per gene. If `FALSE` (default), plots are wrapped into a single
  patchwork layout.

- point_size:

  Numeric. Size of plotted points. Default is `0.2`.

- angle_x_label:

  Numeric angle (in degrees) to rotate the x-axis labels. Useful for
  improving label readability in faceted or dense plots. Default is 0
  (no rotation).

- shuffle:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, shuffles cell order before plotting. Otherwise,
  cells with higher expression are plotted on top. Default is `FALSE`.

- theme_ggplot:

  A ggplot2 theme object. Default is
  [`my_theme_ggplot()`](https://github.com/jinming-cheng/SpNeigh/reference/my_theme_ggplot.md).

## Value

A `patchwork` object or a list of ggplot objects if
`return_list = TRUE`.

## Examples

``` r
df <- data.frame(
    x = c(rnorm(100, 1), rnorm(100, 5)),
    y = c(rnorm(100, 1), rnorm(100, 5)),
    cell = 1:200,
    cluster = rep(1:2, each = 100)
)
exp_mat <- data.frame(
    gene1 = c(runif(100, 4, 6), runif(100, 0, 2)),
    gene2 = c(runif(100, 0, 1), runif(100, 5, 8))
)

exp_mat <- t(exp_mat)
colnames(exp_mat) <- df$cell

# set a random seed when shuffle is TRUE to reproduce the plot
set.seed(123)
PlotExpression(
    data = df, exp_mat = exp_mat, shuffle = TRUE,
    genes = c("gene1", "gene2"), point_size = 2
)


PlotExpression(
    data = df, exp_mat = exp_mat,
    genes = "gene1", sub_plot = TRUE,
    one_cluster = 1, point_size = 2
)

```

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ jinming-cheng/SpNeigh@5d05b8a87a069707ba4d40ac7974d4276a67756c 🚀

reference/PlotExpression.md, after:

# Plot gene expression across spatial coordinates

Visualizes expression of selected genes on a spatial plot using cell
coordinates and expression matrix. Can display expression for all cells
or a subset (e.g., by cluster or manually specified cells). Also
supports splitting the plot using metadata columns (e.g., `cluster`) and
returning either a combined plot or a list of individual ggplot objects.

## Usage

``` r
PlotExpression(
  data = NULL,
  exp_mat = NULL,
  genes = NULL,
  sub_plot = FALSE,
  cluster_col = NULL,
  one_cluster = NULL,
  sub_cells = NULL,
  split_by = NULL,
  ncol = NULL,
  return_list = FALSE,
  point_size = 0.2,
  angle_x_label = 0,
  shuffle = FALSE,
  theme_ggplot = my_theme_ggplot()
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  A `Seurat` object, a `SpatialExperiment` object, or a data frame
  containing spatial coordinates.

- exp_mat:

  A numeric gene expression matrix with genes as rows and cells as
  columns. Must be of class `matrix` or `dgCMatrix`.

  If `data` is a `Seurat` object, `exp_mat` can be omitted and will be
  automatically extracted using
  [`Seurat::GetAssayData()`](https://satijalab.github.io/seurat-object/reference/AssayData.html)
  from the active assay.

  If `data` is a `SpatialExperiment` object, `exp_mat` can be omitted
  and will be automatically extracted from
  [`SingleCellExperiment::logcounts()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/SingleCellExperiment/man/assays.html).

  The column names of `exp_mat` must match the cell identifiers used in
  downstream analyses.

- genes:

  Character vector specifying gene names to be plotted. Must match row
  names in `exp_mat`.

- sub_plot:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, only a subset of cells is plotted (based on
  `one_cluster` or `sub_cells`). Default is `FALSE`.

- cluster_col:

  Character scalar specifying the metadata column name containing
  cluster assignments. If `NULL`, a default is used depending on the
  input object type:

  - `"seurat_clusters"` for `Seurat` objects

  - `"cluster"` for `SpatialExperiment` objects

- one_cluster:

  Optional. Cluster ID to subset cells if `sub_plot = TRUE`.

- sub_cells:

  Optional. Vector of cell IDs to include in the plot if
  `sub_plot = TRUE`. If both `one_cluster` and `sub_cells` are provided,
  the intersection is used.

- split_by:

  Optional. Column name in the metadata (from `data`) to facet the plots
  (e.g., by `cluster`).

- ncol:

  Number of columns in the faceted plot when `split_by` is used. Passed
  to
  [`ggplot2::facet_wrap()`](https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org/reference/facet_wrap.html).
  Default is `NULL`, which lets ggplot2 determine layout automatically.

- return_list:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, returns a named list of individual ggplot objects
  per gene. If `FALSE` (default), plots are wrapped into a single
  patchwork layout.

- point_size:

  Numeric. Size of plotted points. Default is `0.2`.

- angle_x_label:

  Numeric angle (in degrees) to rotate the x-axis labels. Useful for
  improving label readability in faceted or dense plots. Default is 0
  (no rotation).

- shuffle:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, shuffles cell order before plotting. Otherwise,
  cells with higher expression are plotted on top. Default is `FALSE`.

- theme_ggplot:

  A ggplot2 theme object. Default is
  [`my_theme_ggplot()`](https://github.com/jinming-cheng/SpNeigh/reference/my_theme_ggplot.md).

## Value

A `patchwork` object or a list of ggplot objects if
`return_list = TRUE`.

## Examples

``` r
df <- data.frame(
    x = c(rnorm(100, 1), rnorm(100, 5)),
    y = c(rnorm(100, 1), rnorm(100, 5)),
    cell = 1:200,
    cluster = rep(1:2, each = 100)
)
exp_mat <- data.frame(
    gene1 = c(runif(100, 4, 6), runif(100, 0, 2)),
    gene2 = c(runif(100, 0, 1), runif(100, 5, 8))
)

exp_mat <- t(exp_mat)
colnames(exp_mat) <- df$cell

# set a random seed when shuffle is TRUE to reproduce the plot
set.seed(123)
PlotExpression(
    data = df, exp_mat = exp_mat, shuffle = TRUE,
    genes = c("gene1", "gene2"), point_size = 2
)


PlotExpression(
    data = df, exp_mat = exp_mat,
    genes = "gene1", sub_plot = TRUE,
    one_cluster = 1, point_size = 2
)

```
